Welcome to Managing GitHub Projects.
After watching this video, you will be able to:
Understand common roles in a Git project.
Use git commands to communicate with other developers.
A Developer working as a participant in a group project needs to learn how to communicate
with others and uses these commands in addition to the ones needed by a standalone developer.
When working with Git, you can use Git commands or a desktop tool such as GitHub Desktop.
git-clone from the upstream to prime the local repository.
git-pull and git-fetch from "origin" to keep up-to-date with the upstream.
git-push to shared repository, if you adopt CVS style shared repository workflow.
git-format-patch to prepare e-mail submission, if you adopt Linux kernel-style public forum
workflow.
git-send-email to send your e-mail submission without corruption by your MUA.
git-request-pull to create a summary of changes for your upstream to pull.
An integrator in a group project receives changes made by others, reviews and integrates
them that is responds to pull requests and publishes the result for others to use.
Integrators use the following commands in addition to the ones needed by participants.
git-am to apply patches e-mailed in from your contributors.
git-pull to merge from your trusted lieutenants.
git-format-patch to prepare and send suggested alternative to contributors.
git-revert to undo botched commits.
git-push to publish the bleeding edge.
A Repository Administrator uses the following tools to set up and maintain access to the
repository by developers.
git-daemon to allow anonymous download from repository.
git-shell can be used as a restricted login shell for shared central repository users.
git-http-backend provides a server-side implementation of Git-over-HTTP ("Smart http") allowing both
fetch and push services.
gitweb provides a web front-end to Git repositories, which can be set-up using the git-instaweb
script.
Repository Admins can use GitHub Actions to automate software workflows, including continuous
integration and continuous delivery.
In this video, you learned:
There are multiple roles involved in managing a project:
Developer
Integrator and
Repository Administrator
Each role uses different git commands to communicate with collaborators.
